Brandon Sowers (00:01)
Hey everyone, Brandon Sowers here running for Congress again in Arizona District 1 and I'd love to be able to bring an amazing guest on today to talk about some very con, well issues, a lot of issues that are happening in our MAGA movement and it's very controversial. So this is Jake. Jake, please introduce yourself and tell us why we should actually listen to you and what.

your background is so we can give our listeners a little insight first and foremost.

Jake Donnelly (00:32)
Yeah, absolutely. And thank you for having me on Brandon and good luck with the election. So my name is Jake Donnelly. I call myself the red, white and blue Jew. It's a moniker, of course, but also it's exactly what I believe in the red, white and blue because I grew up on a farm in Connecticut, the son of a Vietnam tanker, a guy who was born dirt poor in 1941, Waterbury, Connecticut and the son of a entrepreneur, a small business owner who bet on herself.

and ended up without taking a vacation for more than 20 years, turning a senior residential community of 114 beds into the most successful senior residential community in the area. So I really understand what this country is about. I have seen the American dream lived not just by my dad going from abject poverty to the middle class by the time that he died, but I also saw my mom who went from the middle class into a higher class by...

engaging with the promise of America, which is high risk, high reward. So I really do love this country. As I said, I grew up on a farm. My earliest memories are of collecting chicken eggs, feeding horses and milking cows. I know what this country is about. You work hard and you get what you get. I played baseball in college. I ended up moving to Israel full-time making what's known as Aliyah.

and gaining Israeli citizenship back in 2018, although I had lived there for most of the prior about three years or so doing several internships. And that's just because I'm Jewish and there's a certain call for many Jews to go to Israel and to experience where our religion was formed. And it's the same thing for Christians. And it's why I truly love Israel because you can go to the Sea of Galilee, the Kinneret, and you can actually walk the steps that Jesus walked himself.

You can see the places where he delivered sermons. I love the Church of the Holy Sepulcher. And I just want equality for all in the United States of America, whether that be economic equality, not equity, but equality, where if you put in the work, you get what you get. I don't know many people that didn't take vacations for 20 years like my mom, but I also want freedom of religion. And I want this country to become what Frederick Douglass thought that it could become. And that's why I get so annoyed

when people talk about how tough their life is. I look at somebody like Frederick Douglass who was born a slave and by the end of his life, he was extolling the virtues and the promise of the United States of America. And I'm trying to do that in my own way, which can be a little bit blue. I do swear a lot, I'm sorry, son of a Marine and a farmer. So that tends to happen in addition to being an athlete. But I just want that message to get across that this is America and whatever you want,

you can make something out of yourself so long as you put in that.

Brandon Sowers (03:24)
I totally agree. mean, in this day and age, we see a lot of 20 year olds that are getting on YouTube, learning new skills and definitely growing their own business, their own entrepreneurship and excelling. But then on the flip side, we have a lot of people that take stuff for granted and it sounds like there's a lot of resentment. There's a lot of just things that they're wishing that they could change. And I'd like to actually dive into some of that. We're hearing affordability with housing is becoming an issue.

inflation. We're looking at some of the things that are affecting middle class on a regular basis. And let's get into that in a little bit too. So one of my things is changing from a meaningless issue to a meaningful issue. That's like my biggest take here. So you and I are relatively around the same age. We've gone through things that seemed fairly meaningless. for example, when we went to Iraq, like so let's start getting into this. You know, there was an assumption that

that there was weapons of mass destruction. And even some of my friends went there, there was nothing to be found. We killed, as an American government, over a million civilians, which didn't really seem like a good thing, right? Like it didn't really make peace or prosperity for us in the middle class. And I know this could be a sensitive subject, but I definitely wanna dive into this. It seemed meaningless, right? It seemed like we went there and it became a meaningless war.

How do we change that to become meaningful? How do we, like from your vision, from your perspective, even being a Jewish American, like what do you want to see in, just from a war perspective, what do you want to see American citizens to actually feel meaningful again, right? So do you believe that we should get into more wars? Do you believe that wars is effective for us? Or like let's just dive into that. That's gonna be kind of a grenade in this whole conversation.

Jake Donnelly (05:17)
On the macro, no. On the micro, yes. It's dependent on what wars. And if you're going to talk about like bombing Fordow and stopping Iran, that's death to America, Iran, who put out a hit not just on our president, Donald Trump, but also on Mike Pompeo. And we have a 12-day war that Israel does for the rest of the world, essentially, by stopping the Iranians from getting nuclear weapons or enriching their uranium past 60 % when what would you need?

for civilian purposes is literally one sixth of that. Yes, that's a good thing. I also don't consider that a war. I don't consider a couple of flights, a couple of sorties by B-2 bombers to be a war. I say that that is actually something that's avoiding war because I am of the Trumpian perspective of peace through strength. I would rather do what we can to avoid wars. In other words, I don't like the whole Neville Chamberlain and appeasement. You can see

how that goes, what Biden did, what Obama did. Hey, you know what? You just have to wait for me to win my second term and then you Russia, you can go into Crimea. That's how wars start. That's actually how wars start. Going in and stopping that from happening would stop the war right now that's occurring between Russia and Ukraine. When it comes to Iraq, a lot of bad information. I'll point out that Benjamin Netanyahu actually said, don't go in there. The real threat to everybody in the Middle East is Iran.

So he nailed that one. But do I like wars? No, nobody likes wars. But there's a difference between my perspective and that of somebody like Dave Smith, where Dave Smith is going to try to avoid wars at all costs. Some wars, unfortunately, have to be fought. And America and the greatness of America is really a testament to that because of course we didn't want to fight World War II. We were dragged into it first by the Japanese and then by the Germans. And of course, when we come in, we win.

our wars, but once we get into those wars, we have to prosecute those wars, I think, better than we have. And the adage that I like to go to when it comes to a conversation like this is that our soldiers win the wars and then our politicians, actually, let me rephrase that, our soldiers win the battles and then our politicians lose the wars. Donald Trump is the rare politician who wins the war. Our secretary of war, I know it's defense, but I love the idea that we're calling it secretary of war again.

But our Secretary of War, Pete Hegseth, Marco Rubio, those are guys and politicians that actually know how to win wars. So I look at Venezuela right now, and I don't see that we're gonna have 100,000 troops on the ground, but I do see that Donald Trump and his administration are going to stop Americans from dying of drug poisoning, not overdoses, but drug poisoning, which is what all of those fentanyl deaths are. And so I hope that makes sense. No on the macro, but dependent on the war and the micro, sometimes yes.

Brandon Sowers (08:13)
Absolutely. I definitely think transparency is key. So definitely to your point, like why are we doing what we're doing? Right? And let's get into, you know, kind of what's happening right now with Venezuela. What is your perspective? Like why are we even in conflict with Venezuela? Just so I can, I can hear it.

Jake Donnelly (08:31)
Yeah, because they're nefarious actor in our hemisphere, even though technically they're over in the Southern hemisphere. But with Venezuela, it's the fact that they're sending drug runners who are murdering Americans by with their cocaine and their fentanyl-laced cocaine. And that is terrible for not just America writ large, but for individual Americans. And for everybody that is truly worried about the middle and lower class Americans who are struggling right now, one of the big things that they are struggling with

is addiction, is drug overdoses and drug poisonings. And how do you stop that? You stop that by going after China. You stop that by going after Venezuela and you stop that by making sure our border is secure. So I don't just see Venezuela as kind of a one-off. I see it as more of a little part of a bigger picture where we're trying to stop the drugs that are coming into America and murdering Americans that are coming from China and Mexico and Venezuela.

And I think if you stop it in Venezuela, you knock out one domino and then you take out the next domino and then you can isolate China and that's where it really gets interesting.

Brandon Sowers (09:37)
Yeah, it seems like Trump's done a great job on securing the border. As we know, we barely see anyone going, almost even like zero people going across the border. And of course, that's gonna affect the drugs coming through. And we know that it comes through in specific areas.

Before Trump in the Biden administration, we saw so many immigrants coming in. It was a very strong open border. Now, there's some theories that it could be because Democrats wanted more votes in specific areas. There's other theories where George Soros is very focused on open society.

George Soros seems, he's Jewish, is he not? Like, is there a evil agenda to maybe bring in a bunch of immigrants to what we call, like, mix the race? I think we're starting to get into that fringe stuff that we're looking at online and going, what's true and what's not true, right? So I just want to, like, bring it out in the open. Is there some weird Jewish evil plan to mix all the races so the Jewish people become the only ones to rule the world?

Let's just like go right at the at that.

Jake Donnelly (10:47)
So I'm gonna do it backwards. First and foremost, there is no Jewish plan to rule the world. In fact, the reason I love the United States of America so much is because it perfectly aligns with Jewish values, traditional Jewish values, which are essentially, if you don't bother me, I won't bother you, AKA the leave me alone doctrine. That's what being Jewish is about. We don't try to convert. In fact, it's actually barred from us to do so. The whole idea that the Jews are the chosen people is

Brandon Sowers (10:49)
Yeah.

Jake Donnelly (11:15)
kind of a misreading, it's chosen to do God's commandments. That's what we're chosen to do. We have 613 commandments. If you're not Jewish, you only have seven commandments and they're pretty solid ones like do not murder, do not steal, do not harm animals and things like that. It's really solid stuff that everybody can get behind. But I really appreciate the question because I'm the combating anti-Semitism guy. I'm the one that looks at how Jewish organizations are trying to combat anti-Semitism. And I go, you guys are all doing it

wrong. So I'm going to do it my way. You're all trying to speak English. I'm going to speak American because I think this is how I can get the message across so that those people who don't really know what's going on can actually listen. So George Soros. Yes, he's Jewish. So is his son, Alex. Hear me, the red, white and blue Jews, 61205 Farm Boy telling you that George Soros, Alex Soros in the open society are one of the worst things, not just for Americans, but for the world at

large because they do this not just in America, but in multiple other countries as well. The Soros AGs are a blight on the United States of America and Ron DeSantis, what he's doing in Florida right now and just taking out the AGs will not enforce the law. That's what every single conservative politician who is an executive should be doing. So all the governors, if you're a red governor and you've got in Soros AG in your area, take them out.

What the open society is trying to do is not a Jewish plot, it's a progressive plot. And where most people get confused, and I actually do have a lot of grace for Americans when they get confused by this, most Jews in America vote democratic. I believe the majority are progressive, but you've got about 70 % of American Jews who vote democratic. The issue is the vast majority of those Jews are not religious Jews.

who are upholding traditional Jewish values. And that's the difference. There is nothing Jewish about the open society. There is nothing Jewish at all about what George Soros is doing. Because one of the things that it is when you wanna be Jewish is that you're supposed to set up a bait, Dean, you're supposed to set up a court of law. That's one of our big things. So to say that George Soros is doing this on behalf of the Jews.

is missing the fact that that is explicitly anti-Jewish. So I really do appreciate the question. I hope I clarified that issue. Yeah, he's Jewish and Alex Soros is Jewish, but they're not good Jews. And point of that is the fact that they don't believe in upholding the law.

Brandon Sowers (13:54)
I love that. So you're sharing a very interesting perspective that you can't put every single Jewish person under one umbrella and make that the total agenda for the Jewish people. Like literally you're condemning that progressive movement that George Soros is, you know, advocating, right? And so I love that, because now we're bringing that to light. And that goes to the second question that we see online is there's, you know, Jewish owners of OnlyFans

and Pornhub and all these other pornographic sites. And some of them even say rabbis. Is that a secret evil Jewish group that's trying to destroy the middle class or just even men and women of America through destroying their morals? Speak to that for us so we get another good perspective from your view.

Jake Donnelly (14:46)
It's similar to what I said about Soros, but again, that's not really engaging in Jewish behavior. Chronologically speaking, the first commandment in the Tanakh, so the Torah, the five books of Moses, the Nevi'im, which are the prophets and the Ketuvim, which are the writings, like that's how Jews look at the Torah. That's our big thing, yeah? So the very first commandment that God gives to people, which is Adam and Eve, is to be fruitful and multiply, peru uvaru, go forth, essentially.

have sex and procreate and it's having sex for the explicit person of procreation. Now you can have sex for the purpose of with your partner making an even better connection as I hope you and your wife do as me and my wife do as well. But when you're looking at, hey, this is a Jewish person that owns this like, okay, yes, but then on the other hand, there's also a Jewish person that saying this is not how you're supposed to act. If you're Jewish, I'll point out one person as I just had an appearance.

Hilariously so from my perspective on Piers Morgan. Yes, that should air later today as we're filming this on December 4th, but Piers Morgan has on Rabbi Shmuley Betoach. He is somebody that is referred to as America's rabbi. There is not a single Jew that I know that likes Rabbi Shmuley. He and his daughter are engaged in things that I wouldn't do. Again, it's America and I love free market capitalism. So you do what you want to do. At the same time, can I say,

That's not very religious of you, Rabbi. Absolutely. Can I say you're kind of being a stain on the entire religion and the Jewish people as a whole? Yeah, I can say that and I will say that and I do say that. So it's again, you can't just lump everybody together. Like, why don't we do it the other way? Why don't we point out that Ben Shapiro is a perfect example of what being Jewish is about? Why don't we point out that Dennis Prager is a perfect example of what being Jewish is about?

Why don't we point out me, not that I'm a Dennis Prager or a Ben Shapiro or anything like on the level of those guys. At the same time, if you're going to harp on the bad, I want you to at least harp on the good just as much.

Brandon Sowers (16:55)
Yeah, absolutely. think what I'm seeing is there is an anti-semitic movement happening and it's from anger, resentment, frustration. It's in both camps, know, both blue and red. And my concern is we get someone that's really radical that will take on that energy and make it into an evil energy. So again, I appreciate you being on the show because you're trying to shed light to the darkness. And again, I'm going to kind of repeat a little bit of some stuff here so our listeners can...

and

can really grasp what's going on and maybe see that a lot of this is meaningless and get back to that meaningful purpose of life and going back and creating value and creating a family and creating like the American principles that we all love. So there is not some hidden agenda that the Jewish people are trying to achieve by building this third temple, destroying the rest of the races, enslaving everyone, and then killing all the Christians at the end of time. Like, let's just like just get that

out of the way.

Jake Donnelly (17:55)
That's not, I don't wanna be glib here. That's not in any Jewish writings. And it's really funny to me as somebody that did grow up studying the Talmud, it's like, no, we don't actually care. And I mean this in the best of ways, again, in kind of the American way. We don't really care about the other religions because what we truly care about is how we act. Judaism is all about acts. That's what commandments are. It's what are you doing this day? Do you wake up and do you say, ani? Do you say,

the Shema, do you go and do you help out your wife? Or do you make sure that your baby daughter's room is clean so that by the time she comes home from daycare, your wife can actually be relaxed after her job as a preschool teacher? When it comes to the third temple, no. I'm gonna say one thing real quick. A lot of the people that say that the Jews are all together organized to come up with all of these have never in their life had a conversation.

where there's two Jews in the conversation. The old joke, is entirely true, is two Jews, three opinions. We're people who love to argue. That's what the Talmud is. It's all about going into the minutia of every single line in the Torah and figuring out what is the reasoning behind this, why it is that we're doing this thing. It's a lot of philosophy, it's a bunch of arguments, but like the third temple stuff, we don't do that. Like even how Jews look at the Messiah, Mosheach, how we do that.

is not the way that Christians look at it. It's not like Jesus Christ coming back and now everybody will be saved. That's actually not what the Mosheach is from a Jewish perspective. The Messiah is actually a political figurehead, which is why there have been multiple fake Messiahs throughout Jewish history. So when it comes to that, you first have to realize Jews are never in agreement about anything. I got fired by a Jewish organization, a nonprofit Jewish organization in the greater Boston area.

because we vehemently disagree with one another or make that excuse me, disagree with one another. So the idea that, you know what, actually Jews are all in agreement and we're going to do this third temple and we're going to enslave, there's nothing in Jewish history that says we're going to do that. We don't want it. We want to be left alone and we want to enjoy the greatness that is the United States of America, which its promise is to be left alone.

Brandon Sowers (20:17)
Yeah, what I love, feel like one of the best forms of charity that a Jew can do is give someone a job. Isn't that true? Is there something in that from a Jewish perspective?

Jake Donnelly (20:28)
Yes, because the way that charity, tzedakah, righteousness, is done in Judaism is not actually the way that most people think. It's not like, okay, we pull our money together in the collection plate and then that money goes to another person. When you're Jewish, the rich is supposed to give just as much as the poor. There's actually a commandment, again, a mitzvah, that you're supposed to, if you're poor, give tzedakah as well. Because everybody is part of the community and when you give this charity, what you're doing is,

helping out the community. But the best form of charity is not to just give somebody money. The best form of charity is to give somebody opportunity. Again, American through and through. Like I can say that about America. America wasn't great because of the welfare state. America was great because it is the land of opportunity. That's what Judaism and America is all about.

Brandon Sowers (21:23)
I love that.

I even from my perspective, I've been a business owner and started businesses my whole entire adult career and has hired, you know, all different types of walks of life of people and really changed their lives that way. And so I could see that when you give people that opportunity, they have purpose and they're able to go out there and provide for their family. And I want to see that there's this Jewish idiom in the New Testament when Jesus talks about if your eye is bad, then your whole body is

And a lot of times we think that might be like what you look at but actually like in Jewish idiom It's your eye is you know giving like an aspect of giving right? So he's really saying like if you don't give your whole community will fail

And what I would love to see is a rally around the American church, all the churches in America, starting to get into venture capital, starting to get into more opportunities with their communities by saying, let's actually make a good eye, an eye that actually is giving opportunities, not just a handout, but a hand up.

And we can learn that from the Jewish people. mean, it's a Jewish idiom, right? So I love what you just said that...

as a community, your goal is to provide as much opportunity as possible and let's start doing that. What if we stopped focusing on these meaningless conspiracies and issues and actually went as a community and said, hey, let's rally our money together, both the poor and the rich and actually put this towards venture capital, opportunities, jobs, expansion in the local community and actually grow from that perspective. mean, let me know your thoughts on

that.

Jake Donnelly (23:07)
I mean, you just described America. America federalism is make everything as hyper-local as possible because the more that it grows out, the less control you have over something. I don't, as a single individual, have control over my town, but I have more control over my town than I do my state and, of course, than I do my country. So the more hyper-local you get, the better. And why should it come from the religious aspect?

It should, in my opinion, because the religion is giving you the confidence. That's what most people, and you've been talking about envy and resentment. Those are evil, those are sins. And that's how you really devolve, not just as an individual, but as a community and as a country. That's the stuff that tears down the edifices of everything that we've built up. Because when you start looking at the other person and going, hey, I want that, right? It's one of the 10 commandments.

thou shall not covet thy neighbors, so on and so forth. But you don't do that because it's bad for you. It's not bad for the neighbor. It's the worst thing for you if you let that philosophy dig into your soul. And that's why the whole thing about your eye, it's about the perspective. How are you perceiving everything around you? And if your church can help you and help your community build and build the confidence that it needs to say, no, this is great and we can accomplish so much,

That's the perfect combination of the religious aspect that founded the United States of America and that fortitude to go out into the wilderness, go West, young man, that made America great. And it's everything to me. And it's why I love hearing people like you. And again, thank you for having me on so we can have this discussion.

Brandon Sowers (24:52)
Absolutely, I think you you you touched a point of like covetness and I don't think social media is really helping in that regards, right? You can get stuck on one particular thing and now all of a sudden, you know My wife is seeing all different type of makeup ads that is actually more emotional and now it's like why are we buying more makeup or buying more this or buying more that?

consumption is starting to happen, but also the conspiracies. And I feel like social media is our secret war, like spiritual war, that is unseen that we actually need to look at and actually address. I heard Australia has banned social media from 16-year-olds down, and I agree with stuff like that, because not just the online bullying, but the content that they can have.

the sexualization that can happen super quickly because of access to online stuff. And so when you look at covenness to your point, it's like people can get really stuck into this virtual world of meaningless nonsense rather than actually being able to go to your local community and actually determine like what are the needs of the community and how do we...

bring more value to that community. I believe Shabbat was a really good example of that, where you're inviting your friends and family on that day. And I know Charlie Kirk was really big with Shabbat. I've read Abraham Heschel's Sabbath. I'm a big fan of Rabbi Abraham Heschel. And when you have that little aspect of community together, you're having that dialogue.

of needs and then you can actually help in that perspective or be creative and come up with ideas. So around the dinner table is like, hey, that might be a great idea for this community. So again, I would actually like to veer off just a little bit and I want to hear your vision on that localization approach. know, where would you like to see America in the next five years from that perspective that we can actually see the American principles

actually flourish from that local local view. So maybe give us your view from from that.

Jake Donnelly (27:04)
Yeah, so I'm actually gonna take one of the things you talked about with the social media in Australia and their 16 year old band and use that as the local thing. I don't think that the government writ large like so the American government should do something like that in the way of Australia because I want all of the rules to be done hyper locally. I want it from town to district, district to state, state then to federal level. I think that that's the way to go about it. But when it comes to how do you create that community?

You do do it exactly like that. You go to church. Everybody's talking about, I can't find anybody. The online dating sites, those aren't fun. da da da da. Go to church. You're going to find your wife or your husband if you go to church because it's built in value system that you agree, which is always the most difficult thing. Because a lot of people, when they go online, they're like, well, now I don't know what her real values are or I don't know what his.

Values are is he a guy that goes to church you have to figure that out through the dating app if you go to church and you meet the person at church you already know what their top values are they believe in some higher power which then means that they actually have a very static morality which is something that America used to have we used to know what was right and what was wrong and I think how you fix things is by engaging or reengaging for the American perspective in

the religious aspect that help America figure out what was good and what was bad. So how do you build that out? You go and you do Shabbat or you have that Sunday dinner, you have that Easter dinner, you make sure that you start talking to your family more, give them a call. If you're gonna be on your phone, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12 hours a day, maybe set aside 15 minutes to call that friend of yours that you haven't talked to in a while or call that family member that you've had a tiff with. That's how you start.

Then you go and you help out the community. If you've got a farmer's market like a lot of people in New England do, you go to the farmer's market and maybe you don't necessarily need to buy that specialized syrup that they only have at the farmer's market. But do you truly believe in your community? Do you want to help out that person who painstakingly went to that maple tree, tapped the tree, got the sap and turned the sap into syrup and said, you know what? I appreciate the hard work.

and the fact that you've done something with your own hands and with your own ingenuity. That's a really good way to help out. I'm a sports guy, so I truly believe that you should go and you should be a coach or a fan at the little league game or the little soccer where all 12 of them are running around, right? After the one ball, there's no semblance of organization. That's how you build that community because then you're meeting the other parents in your community. And the more that you do that, you'll all of a sudden fake it till you make it.

realize that you've started to build a really tight knit and what will become a tight knit and thriving community. And those little things are end up being the big things that help out truly your community, then your town, then your state, and then your country.

Brandon Sowers (30:13)
I love that and to your point, it's very meaningful to be a soccer coach for your kids. Been doing that the last couple of seasons and just meeting the people. And to give you a testimony of that, there are kids in there that have gained confidence just from being a part of our team and that's what it's all about. That's that localization and bringing that value.

For me, from my belief, my perspective in Congress, I want to give back power to the state. I want to bring this back from a constitutional point of view. And I feel like there's a lot of overreach that is transpiring with the federal government. But I would love to hear, like we want to move into that. What would be your...

Like for me going into Congress, what would you want to see? Any particular changes in in our current federal government?

Jake Donnelly (31:05)
Yeah, make Congress be Congress again, I guess would be the way I'd phrase it. Right now, Congress is a vestigial organ. They don't pass any real laws. They don't do what they're supposed to do. Now I am somebody who enjoys the gridlock of America and the fact that you know what, we're a limited constitutional republic and things aren't supposed to go at hyper speed, but I despise executive orders. If something is good enough to be acted upon, it should be sent through Congress. It should go.

to the House and then it should go to the Senate. That's how we need to do these things. And the representatives, I don't know if it's because it's no longer how people do things, if there's too much buddy-buddy stuff. I hate the idea that at the end of the day, you know what? The Republicans and the Democrats go out for beer on Capitol Hill or probably cocktails, given how much money a lot of them make. But I don't like that idea. I actually do enjoy the fact that when we were founded, it was fisticuffs and even worse.

because people really wanted to stand for what they believed in. It's not like there's a bunch of compromise now. There's way too much government. There's way too much inflation. And we shouldn't, my main thing is we really shouldn't be giving all of the power for how inflation is done to a separate entity. Like that makes absolutely no sense to me whatsoever. So I really just want Congress to do its actual job as opposed to the executive right now. And this isn't a ding.

on Donald Trump. It's really a ding on the last quarter of a century of American politics. But the executive right now to me is kind of monarchic. Way too many executive orders by everybody. Let's actually bring it back to the people who have the power of the purse and have them be the ones that pass the bills and pass the laws.

Brandon Sowers (32:51)
Yeah, I love what Warren Buffett said, like if a balanced budget cannot be pushed through, then everyone should be primaried and it allows us to have transparency, accountability, right?

I there's too much, you know, I feel like term limits is a big deal. We really need to see more representation. And when I first started running, a lot of the advice was, you know, going to Congress is gonna, you're gonna sacrifice your family. This is the worst place to go as a father. This is horrible as a young man to go into politics. And I'm like,

That's probably the number one reason to get in is because we need more representation, more fathers with lots of children that are in government because what do you think I'm gonna vote on? I'm gonna vote on policies for the future of my children, right? Family first. Like if there's more fathers, there's gonna be less government. Going back to the...

very localization theory that we like America was founded on if we become better fathers Then there's going to be a better nation and so why not bring that into into congress and I do I agree with you. I think we need A lot a lot of changes to transpire in congress even on the budget side of things i've heard You know a great argument of well if we have you know, three-fourths of of the congress being able to pass some of these

Exemptions that it'd be fine. Well that always happens like that 80 % of the house will pass things that always happens we need like to have no exemptions and we need to get back to a balanced budget and One thing I'm trying to restore is also the US dollar I think you kind of touched on that a tiny bit just there But it's like we need to get back to printing our own monies having sound monies having valuable monies so that you

when we work hard and we have our savings, it doesn't disintegrate like with the moths in our banking account because of inflation, which is another form of taxes, but it actually grows, right? Like as a dad, I don't know about you, but I want to pass down inheritance to my children's children, right? As the Bible says, and one way of doing that is making sure that the very hard-earned

money that we have stays in that value. think that's why Bitcoin has grown and crypto has grown and certain things have showed up on the scene. so I know that we are a very intelligent nation of people that can come up with incredible solutions to restore the dollar again. And so that's, I'd love to hear your take on that too.

Jake Donnelly (35:37)
Yeah, it's unconscionable that my dollar becomes 80 cents in 10 years because of inflation. That is ridiculous. It's stealing. It's a tax in a country where we didn't have an income tax at the beginning of this, which again, I'm not trying to boost Ron DeSantis into the Oval Office all by myself, but it's another reason why I love Florida. I've lived there before and it's so well run. And I hope that every state is as well run as Florida. But you talked about dads and politicians.

My favorite politician is Nick Friedis. Are you familiar with him, Virginia Assemblyman? Okay, so he was in the military, army guy, looks the part as well, but he and his wife, I think have four children, all of whom are now out of the house and he is only 45 or so. I might be getting some of those numbers a little bit wrong, but when I have somebody like you, Brandon, or Nick talking about the issues that are important to them,

I know that I can believe them as opposed to many of the other politicians because you guys are dads. You have a stake in the game and you recognize that when you go to the supermarket and eggs went from 3.45 to 4.25, something is very wrong with that because now you're taking that 50 cents I could have put in the bank and given to my money person, who by the way, ironically is not Jewish for me, but to my financial advisor and say, hey,

I want you to invest that in the right stuff so that I can now give this money to my daughter or I can give it to hopefully a son that I have down the road. That's why I really trust and love talking to guys like you because I believe that you're not just saying things to say things because you know those are the things people want to hear. You believe these things and the number one is inflation right now and we have to get that under control.

I just wanna go back one second if I may, quick point, which I rarely do. The other thing I wanna see from Congress, I know it's impossible with the way that everybody does stuff, but have bills that take less than five minutes to read. I want five to 10 page bills, that's it. Because who's going to read a 1000 page omnibus bill and see where all the pork is and then have you guys vote for that in the span of four hours? No.

make the standalone bills. If they're good enough that they can pass, then they're good enough to stand by themselves and make you guys work. I'm sorry, that's your job. If you're going to Congress, if you're staying in there and you're going to get that pension, then you're gonna have to work and start passing a bunch of bills, but bills that we can all read because then we can all be more ⁓ informed, as you said, transparent, right? We need that transparency. And that's how you educate.

the average American so that when it comes time for voting, they know exactly what they're voting for. And that's why you don't get Mom Donnie. Sorry.

Brandon Sowers (38:31)
Well, I definitely see, you we have 535 representatives in the House, and imagine if a majority of them were just fathers and mothers with lots and lots of children, and then everything they voted on or whatever they did, that's how it would actually affect their next generations. And so you don't even have to worry about lobbyism because it would already, there'd be no compromise. It's like you are sacrificing your children

or you are going to benefit your children for the way you vote. that's, you know, my like my whole thing and my whole agenda is, you know, family first. So how does this bill affect the family? And one thing that I've already done, I've created a software for my campaign to help my volunteers. That's just kind of my ethos is like, why not just build something a little bit better, more effective. But one thing in there is also a

Almost like a bill translator so my volunteers are able to see all the bills that are coming in and they can see very quickly like a sixth grade level reading level of what it is and then they can see the Democrat view the independent view the Republican view and they can vote on it or support it or make comments and so imagine if I was in Congress and my entire constituents was 800,000 in Arizona all different walks of life are able to have that app

and they could be able to share to me very quickly why they support that bill and they understand that bill like you said and now I become a very strong representative from a local level into the federal government and we need more of that like that's what we need so I love what you're saying is like let's make bills that are

transparent, more understandable, and we're not trying to hide things, especially in the last minute, so that that company or that company or that group can get their payday. Like I said, I don't know if this is a spiritual battle, emotional battle, physical battle, but it seems like corporatocracy has really taken over America. When you get into Congress, there's different agendas all across the board.

So it's not just, you know, APAC, which we'll talk about in a sec, but it's also big pharma and it's also agriculture and pesticide, you know, lobbyism and big oil lobbyism and all different types of lobbyism that is happening. And at the end of the day, for me, what really matters is does this affect the family and can we have something that improves the family and the local community at bay? So.

Let's dive into another controversial thing is APEC, right? A majority of the representatives in both the Senate and the House are funded by APEC. There's also, you know, other big lobbyist groups. And we see in the social media, especially in the big MAGA movement and the GOP movement, that a lot of people are anti that. So from your perspective, like I know you probably can speak and say all the good things about

APEC but do you have any kind of thing there where you're like, hey, let's just get rid of all foreign lobbyism and actually make sure that we don't have that. Like let's just banter that topic right now.

Jake Donnelly (41:55)
Well,

there's a clarification. When you say funded by APAC, what you're saying is funded by Americans. APAC is made up of exclusively Americans. They do lobby for things that they know will be good for Israel, but it's also because what is good for Israel is almost always good for the United States of America. Like you talked about the return on investment for the 3.5 billion that America gives to Israel. America actually ends up on the net positive

by in some cases at least six times that on the return of investment. Now, with that being said, I'm not actually a fan of APAC because again, it's made up of Americans and the majority of American Jews are actually Democrats and liberals, if not actually progressive. So even the APAC people, it straddles both sides of the aisle. And I think a perfect example would be a guy that I really enjoy watching on YouTube because

I think he and his buddies are hilarious on their podcasts unsubscribe because I love military stuff and I love history, but it's Brandon Herrera who is one of the biggest second amendment advocates possible. A guy that has his own gun machine shop. Terrific dude out in the West Texas, West Texas or San Antonio. Sorry, I think it's San Antonio, San Antonio area. And he is going up against Alex Gonzalez. Alex Gonzalez is the APAC ⁓ backed.

candidate and I don't like Alex Gonzalez. I like Brandon Herrera and I'm sure if you gave me a list of a bunch of people and said which one of these do you have it's not going to be anywhere close to me picking the 100 % APAC backed candidate. That's just not how I work. I want the people who are the most pro 2A the most 1A for freedom of expression and freedom of speech and freedom of assembly. I want the people who align most closely.

with what I deem the traditional American values. So APAC in general, just we need that clarification. APAC's made of Americans, it is. Now is the answer to get rid of anything that seems like foreign lobbying? I would love that. Qatar and their investment in America and their lobbying dwarfs that of APAC. It's not even in the same stratosphere. It's like the two are playing completely different sports. I wanna get China.

out of it, I wanna get Iran out of it. You get Ro Khanna and Seth Moulton, Moulton's like, I'm not taking any more AIPAC money, but he is going to take Iranian lobbying money, which is really, really strange when you have to decide between the death to America people and the people who murder, not murder, but the people who delete American murdering terrorists. I feel like you should probably go with the people who kill the murderers. So that seems like the right one to go for there. But with AIPAC,

I'm not the biggest fan of APAC. I'm also not the biggest person that's going to come out and condemn them because I understand what they're doing. But if the answer is you must come out against APAC, then OK, let's come out against any type of foreign lobbying whatsoever, even though, again, APAC isn't a foreign lobby. That's why they shouldn't be registered under Farah. But again, I just think that lobbying the way that's done in America has

Brandon Sowers (45:08)
Thank

Jake Donnelly (45:11)
completely gone off the reservation. So I agree with you there.

Brandon Sowers (45:14)
Yeah,

yeah, if we kind of started getting rid of lobbyism and somehow found a way that people would give 25 to $55 a year to maybe a pool or some sort of, know, maybe to the candidate. But if they're able to get their small donor dollars only, then they have to hear from their constituents. Then you actually get true representation. At the end of the day, let's try to get to true representation. I agree with you. I saw the bill come through where one of these guys are trying to get

of the Chinese funding in our school system. It's massive. It's huge. So I agree with you where it's like, you know, it's not just APAC. I think APAC has become a bullseye target at the moment because of what's transpired in Gaza. And again, being pro-human and what we saw in Iraq, I know that there are many other ways that we might be able to achieve, you know, a mission that needs to be achieved in Gaza to help.

Jake Donnelly (45:48)
Mm-hmm. Thanks, sir.

Brandon Sowers (46:11)
but also to support both sides. And that became a aggressive conversation for everyone saying, what's going on? Like, is this all because of APAC, right? So we can talk about that. We can talk about Gaza right now in a sec. But I want to kind of close the loop on lobbyism.

because if in business, if you saw that you actually got a great deal, then you wouldn't have an issue. So I don't think the American people really know what good deal they have in supporting Israel. I think that needs to be more transparent. So I don't know if that's something along the lines of here's the desalination plant that Israel built for the US on California, or if that becomes one, but transparently being able to see that we have a good deal, because you did bring something up.

We put billions of dollars, send it to support for Israel, and at the moment it seems like, what do we get in return? Do we really have a good deal because we're just sending money? If we see the receipts and we see the influx and we see the benefit, then it's a lot easier to say, this is the best money can spend on this particular ally. I don't know if you have any insights there, but let's try to maybe let the listeners know or hear or understand the

benefits that we are getting as Americans in that support with Israel.

Jake Donnelly (47:30)
Yeah, I'll explain a couple of ways. So we're talking about how China put a lot of money into the school system that seems to be destroying the minds of the younger generation. And they also, of course, with Binance did TikTok and that is absolutely poison for younger people. But you also had the Saudis doing it in the 1980s and then the Qatari started doing it about 20 years ago. And that's where really this anti-American sentiment started to grow. You had the Frankfurt School in the 1960s.

And you had Saul Alinsky with his horrendous tactics that President Barack Obama adopted, as did Hillary Clinton. And that's way too long to get into, and I don't want to go off on that tangent. But that's investment of the bad kind. Investment of the good kind is what Israel is doing. So yes, we give 3.5 billion, but Israel has to buy 75 % of their munitions from the United States of America. So that's going right back into the United States of America that's generating jobs.

for the United States of America militarily, things like the F-35 got vastly improved because Israel's actually having to use the F-35. So the over horizon capability of the F-35, the heads up displays that Israel has developed and can only give to the United States of America, which then benefits that whole piece through strengthening that I sincerely believe in. That's another one. And then also we're talking about this open borders that we had.

under President Barack Obama. Well, where do you think the United States of America is getting all of its intelligence for the bad actors that are coming to the United States from the Middle East, that is coming from Israel? So that return on investment that America is getting and deserves, by the way, I'm not saying, ⁓ Israel's doing it out of the graces of their kind, like the kindness of their own heart. They're doing it because America deserves this and because we are allies and I...

and so America first that I don't want the United States and Israel to actually chop that bomb that currently ties it because Israel, hate to tell everybody, but Israel is going to be just fine if that happens. They bootstrap just about everything. The bandages that our soldiers use on the battlefield is the Israeli bandage. So like even the smallest little things Israel does help out and they should help out the United States of America because

We are allies and that's what allies do. It's not a zero sum game. It's building everybody and making that pie bigger for both Israel and the United States of America. But when we talk about the investments that the United States of America is putting into Israel, Israel is giving that back and then some.

Brandon Sowers (50:17)
Yeah, I'd love to see more physical appearance of that as an example, like a desalination plant in California would be great. And we'd be like, hey, look, look what Israel has done for America and it's helping our water issues or any of the issues that's transpiring in the US. So I love that you're able to share a little bit of insight there. But.

I'd advocate for more of that to say hey like this is a great ally because we're actually getting a lot more out of the deal than what they are getting and And the people would see the receipts and agree with that, but yeah, absolutely ⁓

Jake Donnelly (50:54)
I just

want to interrupt one second. Israel also sends people to help out with disaster relief all across the United States. So flooding and things like that, they have some of the best crews because there's massive flooding in Israel whenever there's quick storms and things like that. they do a lot of stuff on the ground, but you're right. Israel's PR, and we talked about Charlie Kirk, Charlie Kirk's whole point of Israel, your PR sucks completely, 100 % agree with that.

And that's why somebody like me has now apparently gotten a little bit of groundswell because I'm just trying to talk about that so everybody understands it in clean American English.

Brandon Sowers (51:32)
Yeah, yeah, exactly. I mean, I've heard the reports of, you know, Christian churches getting bombed right there in Gaza. And, you know, it's, would have been great for Israel to be able to respond to that and have, like you said, that PR with empathy and be able to help because there are accidents that happen in a war. So it sounds like there is a war that's transpired between the groups, but the PR has made it, you know, a backlash. And so how do we get in there and get more humanitarian aid to even our like,

our fellow Christian brothers, right, in both Gaza and the West Bank. So I really hope that Trump has that peace deal that transpires, that we just have, you know, a secure peace in that land and there's no more issues. And I love that.

you've already brought up that there's not this hidden agenda to just expand the Israeli empire and build the third temple. So as long as it's like, let's come back to the table and let's have the dialogue and let's help each other in need and actually show the receipts that, hey, we are brothers, that we are doing this together. I think that's gonna be the way forward. So for me,

Yeah, like is there anything else that you see in social media or any kind of issues that you want to address that and bring light to it and transparency to it that is probably harming the mindset of the regular conservative Republican in today's day.

Jake Donnelly (53:04)
Yeah, for me, don't

conflate how the majority of American Jews vote with what traditional Judaism and Jewish values are. That's something that is not the fault of Christians and everybody else. That's the fault of the average Jewish voter in the United States of America that does vote for democratic policies that are anti-free speech. I don't like the ADL. I am all about rejecting victimhood. I am a mentor.

to about 30 different students. meet a couple of times a month in the greater Boston area. That's what I do in my downtime. And I think, not I think, I actually have that on this very Sunday, which is great because the Patriots have their bi-week, so I won't miss the football game. But the main thing is don't conflate those two things. You have to reject victimhood status. And that's what I think is really starting to destroy both the left, and that's been there for a long time, but also the right as well.

And I got into a little bit of a hotspot that I don't care that I got into when pointing out that JD Vance who was asked a question by a griper at a TP USA event where the griper said that the religion of Judaism persecutes Christianity. And there is nothing in Judaism that says that. But the issue that I had with JD Vance's answer which ignored that question was that's a victim mentality.

and everybody now is trying to make it so that they are the victim. When you start doing that, you're acting not just anti-Christian or anti-Jewish, you're acting anti-American because America is not made up of victims. America is a country that was founded upon people who overcame some of the hardest struggles in life. There are people like the pilgrims who were fleeing religious persecution and decided I'm...

going to do this and I'm going to do this here. I will live with my God and I will figure out how to prosper. But you can't do those things if you are a victim. But when you have somebody like George Soros in the open society who is a well-known Jew trying to push that stuff, I understand where that perspective comes from. At the same time, you should look at the Jews who reject that, like a Dennis Prager and a Ben Shapiro.

and teach, go back to church, go to your synagogue, engage with your community. That's what Jewish values are, that's what Christian values are, and for our purposes, that's what American values are. So I get it when somebody has a certain perspective, just know that's not the Jewish perspective. Those are Jews who aren't acting like Jews, and that's why people like me very much get angry when we see them getting platformed by others because that's not my religion.

That's not my history. And more than anything else, that's not America.

Brandon Sowers (55:57)
What I'd love to do is...

kind of close this episode out and our next time, you know, hear from our viewers on some more controversial questions that we can address and we can bring that to light. And the one thing that I got out of this in particular is that there is no, you know, hidden evil Jewish agenda to enslave the Christians out there. And if we could just go, great, tick that box. One thing I want to encourage all of us is to get back to, like you said, going back to church, going back to synagogue, but most important,

is that dinner with your community, right? So for you it's Shabbat. For us, we need to bring that back. And you know, we talk about the Lord's Supper, there was a dinner, there was a grouping of people that were not like-minded. The only like-mindedness was Christ, but they were from all different walks of life. And so we need to actually invite everyone back to that dinner table and have that dinner and have those dialogues.

and really figure out the needs of our local community and have agency like Charlie Kirk wants us to have, be responsible for our family, be responsible for our community, and actually focus on us now and then grow from there. And I think that we'll see an incredible America after that. That's one thing I wanna really push for. And Jake.

This has been Fresh Air. Thank you so much for jumping on here and having the dialogue. You're a true patriot. I'd love to have you on more and more. And let's just actually use this time to actually bring things out of the darkness into the light.

and let viewers know like really what's going on and we can actually deal with those hard conversations, have the questions and know that there's no psyops that's going on and get back to building America the way we saw that we wanted to fit, which is like family first. I love that you're pro-America. I just wanna leave it at that. Thank you so much, Jake.

Jake Donnelly (58:02)
Thank you for having me on, Brandon. Can't wait to do this again, And good luck.

Brandon Sowers (58:05)
Thank you so much. Okay. Bye.

